All right, so
we've gone through quite a bit on hiring.
We could go deeper.
Hiring is definitely a big part of
an engineering manager's role, but
we focused on thinking about what's
needed on your team, what's needed for
that particular role that you're hiring.
We've hopefully built up some sort
of thoughts and practices for
writing job descriptions,
building up an interview panel, and
then the networking and sourcing.
I'm curious for the audience,
any networking and
sourcing things that you've found
useful that maybe I missed?
Go ahead, Dustin.
>> From the chat,
I'm a coding bootcamp grad who is now
leading a team of developers, and
staying in contact with the bootcamp's
career support department has been a great
way to have a funnel of great candidates
for entry-level junior roles.
>> I love that, too, because also being
someone coming from a bootcamp or
coming right out of school,
that's hard to find a job, right?
And so if you already have that
connection from like, yeah,
this bootcamp works really well with the
company, that's a great way to do that.
I love that, great suggestion.
Anything else?
Yeah?
>> If I'm looking to just kind
of generally expand a team,
not looking necessarily for
specialists, things like that.
Yeah, I like that intern to full-time
pipeline as well, of bringing on summer
interns, things like that, and then
bringing them on full-time eventually.
>> Those are great too.
And even some companies have that kind of
just someone's job is to focus on that,
and that's really helpful too,
to really help build that pipeline,
I love that suggestion.
All right, now, I mentioned this earlier,
that I do feel that as part of your
job as an engineering manager,
even as an engineer,
how do you build partnerships, right?
That's really important.
You're gonna rely on
others across the company.
Maybe you're working on
similar projects together.
You might have dependencies on
a partner team that you need to get
your job done effectively.
So I wanna focus a little bit on
how do you build partnerships?
How do you make them strong?
Let's start by what does
a healthy partnership look like?
For me, I think it's,
there's mutual trust.
You can trust one another, you feel
comfortable working with one another.
Your teams get along,
there's collaboration.
There's transparency and communication.
Trust is absolutely really important,
but I think being transparent and
communicating and making sure that you
are talking with partnering teams is huge.
There should be a good alignment on goals.
You're both trying to achieve things for
the business, so
that's probably a pretty
good alignment right there.
But you're depending on each
other to deliver something.
And so understanding each other's goals
and motivations can go a long way.
Sometimes I'll do this even
in a one-on-one with, say,
another engineering manager, is like
what's your team trying to achieve?
What are challenges that you're having?
It might not even affect me in any way or
my team, but it's helpful to know that,
and maybe I can help.
Maybe there's things where a partnering
team is trying to hire a certain engineer
that they're struggling with.
And I'm like, wait, my network, I could
probably find someone that fits that.
And so I think building that alignment on
things can really help in many ways to
help one another.
You have this shared
responsibility of outcomes.
Like I said,
there's often times that you're
working together to deliver something.
You wanna make sure that you are lockstep,
that you're able to understand what each
part of the role plays, what's gonna
be delivered, what are the timelines,
and make sure that you're responsible for
your outcomes.
So couple items that we've covered for
healthy partnerships, but
I'm gonna lean on the audience here and
anyone on the stream,
I'm sure there's a lot of things that you
all think about for building partnerships.
What are things that you think
are important or could help partnerships?
Yeah?
>> Something as a candidate in the past
that I've been kinda blown away
by is lack of what they're doing.
Which is, I interviewed, and they're like,
you have great technical knowledge, but
you're not the right fit for this role.
And then they haven't maintained.
And I had a friend who worked at the
company, and they never maintained that
backlog of engineers that were good,
technically, and could fit on
a different team, but they never maintain
that to reach back out for another role.
>> That's a good one.
>> And that blew me away, that so
many companies don't do it.
>> Yeah, I think even just that's where
you can help partnering teams too,
where I've absolutely done that, where
I've interviewed someone, and I'm like,
you're not quite a fit for
this role, but you know what?
There's this other team that
you are absolutely a fit.
And then probably gonna be more
happy there too because it's so
much more aligned.
And so not only is that great for
the candidate, going back to
that candidate experience, but
it's also great for your company and great
for your partner, you just help them out.
That's a good one.
Anything else, yeah?
>> I think one thing is,
me as the manager,
I don't want to be the only one
that maintains those partnerships.
So I wanna make sure that my team is also
having one-on-one time periodically with
different partners that we work with.
>> Yeah.
>> And having that time to get to
know each other and build that trust,
because that doesn't
necessarily always come freely.
And so I think that's something
that I push my team to be like,
have you met with this person one-on-one?
Do you know them?
Do you know what they do
from a day-to-day basis?
That way, when we do have things
that we have pressures and urgency,
things like that,
it all is a lot smoother.
>> I love that too.
And I think you called it out really well
too, is it takes a lot to build trust.
You're speaking to that as it helps
even having the team involved in that.
It's really easy to break trust, right?
That fails really fast, and so
you wanna build up the trust.
And you're gonna make mistakes,
absolutely.
And you'll have conflict between
partnerships, but it's so much better if
you have that baseline of strong trust and
that you can work through it together.
So I love that even involving the team.
One more.
>> I was just gonna say, [COUGH] I've
noticed in many companies I've been in
that siloing tends to happen, where
folks are very focused on their team and
what their team is up to, but are a little
more reticent to break out of that and
kind of, like Emily said,
build trusting relationships across teams.
And one thing I found that's helpful
with that is centers of practice.
Or we have what we call guild meeting for
front end developers,
where we're intentionally getting folks
together who might not talk to each other
very often, but can share ideas, share
things that their team is struggling with.
Or what they're finding success with that
might be adoptable by other teams, and how
they might be able to coordinate training
or adopting some of those strategies.
>> Yeah, a lot of it is really
just connecting dots too, right?
Knowing what other teams are working
on and just being like, wow,
connecting that dot.
I will say one of my biggest pet peeves,
especially in large companies,
is having teams that create something
that another team has already created or
is doing, and that's that siloing.
And it's so
frustrating because you're like, wait,
we just spent and wasted a lot of time
when we could have collaborated or
leveraged something that
some other team has created.
So finding those ways in
which to share knowledge.
I love the guild idea or
pulling forums together.
It's hard, cuz you don't always know
what's the right thing to share?
But the more you share,
someone will connect that dot.